---
title: Docs
collapsible: false
---

<YouTube url="https://youtu.be/We-OIUo2CAc" orientation="square" />

# The Sølid Book

<img
  src="https://solid.grexie.com/logo.svg"
  height="50"
  alt="Sølid"
  style={{ margin: "3rem 2rem 3rem 3rem", float: "right" }}
/>

Sølid is poised to redefine the landscape of JavaScript runtimes, providing a
seamless programming experience for server, desktop, and mobile computing. By
eliminating the need for developers to relearn their programming skills, Sølid
empowers them to effortlessly transition between different platforms.

What sets Sølid apart is its universality. It's designed to operate on a wide
array of operating systems, including iOS, Android, macOS, Windows, and Linux,
wherever both V8 and Golang are accessible. This broad compatibility ensures
that developers can utilize Sølid's capabilities across a multitude of
environments without facing compatibility roadblocks.

Sølid's vision extends beyond traditional platforms. It aspires to unify
decentralized computing within a single application runtime. This means that
developers can harness its power to create applications that leverage
decentralized infrastructure, enhancing security, resilience, and user control.
Furthermore, Sølid simplifies complex internet architectures, streamlining the
development process by abstracting intricacies and allowing developers to focus
on creating valuable applications.

The inclusion of containerd support, a widely used runtime for containers like
Docker, highlights Sølid's adaptability to modern software deployment practices.
By accommodating containerized workloads, Sølid eases the development and
deployment of applications in containerized environments, fostering efficient,
scalable, and portable solutions.

As Sølid paves the way for the future, it envisions a more cohesive and
decentralized computing landscape. By facilitating the seamless integration of
various platforms, streamlining complex internet structures, and supporting
modern containerization practices, Sølid is propelling the programming
experience into a new era of accessibility, efficiency, and versatility.

## Distributing

This documentation is available for download and can be printed using a capable
browser such as Google Chrome or Firefox.

We version control this documentation, and it is available as part of the
`@gosolid/solid-docs` NPM package, corresponding to the version of `solid` it is
released for.

If you have a public mirror that can mirror this site, we appreciate your
support, please get in touch by creating a GitHub Issue or by email.

<div className="noarchive">

[Click here to download](/docs/archive/) a full printable archive of this
documentation site.

</div>

<div className="noprint">

## Copyright

Copyright is held by [Wisdom and Love](https://wisdom-and-love.org) and
maintains control of the codebase.

Anyone contributing resigns Copyright to
[Wisdom and Love](https://wisdom-and-love.org).

A perpetual MIT licence is available for any code contributed to
[Wisdom and Love](https://wisdom-and-love.org).

[Wisdom and Love](https://wisdom-and-love.org) is Here!

</div>
