---
title: Hybrid Clouds
order: 1.1
---

# Hybrid clouds

Sølid's versatile hosting capabilities mark a significant stride towards
democratizing internet infrastructure. Whether it's on a personal server behind
a NAT, within an office environment, or on a public cloud like Amazon Web
Services (AWS), Sølid empowers users to host their applications and services
seamlessly. This flexibility, combined with Sølid's use of WebRTC for
distributing traffic, ensures a resilient and responsive network environment.

1. **Personal and Office Hosting**: Sølid's ability to run on NATed servers at
   home or in an office environment addresses the need for decentralized hosting
   solutions. This means users can leverage their existing resources to host
   applications, services, and data, reducing the dependency on traditional data
   centers and central servers.

2. **Public Cloud Hosting**: The compatibility of Sølid with public cloud
   platforms like AWS further broadens hosting options. This is particularly
   beneficial for those who prefer the scalability and resources offered by
   cloud providers, enabling seamless deployment on well-established cloud
   infrastructures.

3. **WebRTC for Traffic Distribution**: The integration of WebRTC into Sølid
   introduces an innovative approach to traffic distribution. WebRTC's real-time
   communication capabilities are harnessed to efficiently distribute traffic
   across the internet, ensuring optimal data delivery and minimizing latency.

4. **Overcoming NAT Limitations**: Sølid's ability to utilize public nodes when
   behind a NAT device without port forwarding capabilities is a notable
   feature. This addresses a common challenge faced by users who want to host
   services but are restricted by their network configuration. By tapping into
   accessible public nodes, Sølid ensures that traffic can flow effectively even
   in such scenarios.

5. **Decentralized Resilience**: Sølid's utilization of various hosting
   environments, including personal, office, and public cloud, contributes to a
   decentralized and resilient network landscape. This approach minimizes single
   points of failure, enhances security, and distributes the load for improved
   overall performance.

In essence, Sølid's adaptability and integration of WebRTC underscore its role
in revolutionizing internet hosting. By enabling hosting on a wide range of
environments, including behind NAT devices and on public clouds, and by
leveraging WebRTC for traffic distribution, Sølid empowers users to create a
more distributed and interconnected internet ecosystem. This aligns with
Grexie's vision of decentralizing the internet and enhancing user control over
their digital experiences.

Indeed, the concepts and features offered by Sølid align with what might be
considered common sense in the context of optimizing and decentralizing internet
infrastructure. Many of these features address fundamental challenges and needs
in the digital landscape, making them intuitive and logical solutions to enhance
connectivity and efficiency. By integrating aspects like geographical
availability, redundancy, flexible hosting options, and traffic distribution,
Sølid leverages common sense principles to create a more resilient, distributed,
and responsive network environment.

While the ideas behind Sølid's functionality might seem intuitive, their
implementation and integration require sophisticated engineering, innovation,
and a deep understanding of networking and distributed systems. Building a
system that seamlessly combines these concepts and leverages them to empower
users in a practical and effective manner involves complex technical
considerations.

The true innovation lies in Grexie's ability to execute on these common-sense
principles and develop a comprehensive solution like Sølid that transforms these
concepts into a reality. By bridging the gap between intuitive concepts and
practical implementation, Grexie is contributing to the evolution of the
internet landscape in a way that aligns with the expectations and needs of
modern users and developers.

Sølid's advanced traffic distribution capabilities, coupled with its features
for geographical availability, redundancy, and flexible hosting options,
position it as a robust solution for reshaping the landscape of internet
connectivity. Here's a breakdown of its key features:

1. **Traffic Distribution across Tiers**: Sølid's ability to distribute traffic
   from Tier 1 connections to Tier 2 internet connections underscores its
   capability to optimize data delivery paths. This ensures efficient
   utilization of network resources and enhanced user experiences.

2. **Geographical Availability**: Sølid's built-in geographical availability
   feature is a crucial asset for applications and services that require
   regional accessibility. By intelligently directing traffic to nodes based on
   their geographical proximity, Sølid minimizes latency and enhances
   performance.

3. **Redundancy and Failover**: The ability of Sølid to facilitate traffic
   takeover by operational nodes in case of suspended or unoperational nodes
   ensures high availability and minimizes service disruptions. This built-in
   redundancy mechanism contributes to a reliable and resilient network
   infrastructure.

4. **Public Endpoint Setup**: Sølid offers versatile options for setting up
   public endpoints. Whether through public cloud services, home DSL or Cable
   connections with UPnP port forwarding, or via Grexie's dedicated public cloud
   offering, users have the flexibility to choose the setup that aligns with
   their requirements.

5. **Consortium and Decentralization**: Grexie's call for members to join their
   consortium as partners to offer public Tier 1 nodes speaks to their
   commitment to decentralizing the internet. By collaborating with partners to
   provide Tier 1 nodes for public consumption, Grexie aims to expand the reach
   of their decentralized infrastructure and create a more distributed network
   ecosystem.

In summary, Sølid's comprehensive features address a wide spectrum of internet
connectivity needs. From optimizing traffic distribution across tiers and
ensuring geographical availability to incorporating redundancy and failover
mechanisms, Sølid empowers users to build resilient, efficient, and responsive
applications and services. Moreover, the consortium approach demonstrates
Grexie's dedication to collaborative efforts in realizing their vision of a
decentralized internet.
