---
title: About
order: 0
collapsible: false
---

# About

Sølid, the innovative runtime engine developed by Grexie, is a powerful tool
that empowers programmers to build decentralized, secure, and high-performance
applications. Tailored for the modern internet landscape, Sølid offers a range
of capabilities that enhance the development experience while prioritizing data
privacy and efficiency.

At its core, Sølid is designed to seamlessly integrate with both Node.js and
WebRTC, offering a unique combination of server-side capabilities and real-time
communication. This fusion enables programmers to create applications that
leverage the strengths of both technologies, resulting in responsive,
interactive, and globally distributed software.

Sølid's architecture is extensible and security aware, offering programmers a
flexible foundation to build upon. Its decentralized design allows for
customized access control, ensuring that data infiltration decisions are in the
hands of the user. This level of control aligns with modern data privacy
standards and empowers programmers to create applications that respect user
consent.

Programmers using Sølid can tap into its efficient traffic distribution
mechanism, benefiting from the integration of WebRTC. This means that
applications can intelligently route traffic from Tier 1 to Tier 2 connections,
optimizing data delivery and minimizing latency. Additionally, Sølid's support
for geographical availability and redundancy ensures that applications remain
highly accessible and reliable.

Sølid's security features stand out, especially in private cloud environments.
With a least-access security principle by default, programmers can rest assured
that data remains protected. Moreover, Sølid's user-friendly dashboard allows
for straightforward customization, enabling access when necessary.

Whether hosting applications on public or private clouds, Sølid accommodates a
wide range of setups. Programmers can leverage their existing infrastructure,
utilize public cloud services, or tap into Grexie's own public cloud offering.
This flexibility ensures that applications can be deployed in environments that
suit their specific needs.

In a world where data privacy and user control are paramount, Sølid equips
programmers with the tools to create applications that uphold these values. Its
combination of decentralization, security, and efficiency empowers programmers
to contribute to a more user-centric, secure, and responsive digital ecosystem.
As the internet continues to evolve, Sølid stands as a beacon for programmers
seeking to build applications that align with the future of decentralized,
privacy-conscious technology.
