---
title: Hosting
order: 100
---

# Operating public clouds

In the age of digital data, preserving privacy has become paramount, and
innovative technologies like Sølid are playing a pivotal role in ensuring
individuals have control over their personal information. Mobile phones,
particularly those offered by Apple, are known for their robust security
measures and privacy controls. When combined with Sølid, they create a powerful
synergy that enhances data privacy and security. Here are five key points to
consider:

1. **Sølid's Privacy Focus**: Sølid, the innovative runtime engine developed by
   Grexie, is designed with a strong focus on privacy. It offers individuals the
   option to decrypt and process data on their secured mobile devices, giving
   them the ultimate control over their data.

2. **Mobile Device Security**: Apple's mobile devices are renowned for their
   stringent security measures and privacy controls. When used in conjunction
   with Sølid, these devices provide an additional layer of security, ensuring
   that data remains protected and private.

3. **User Confidence**: The integration of Sølid with secure mobile devices
   instills confidence in users that their data is being handled with the utmost
   care. This approach aligns with the growing demand for increased data privacy
   and control.

4. **Informed Data Handling**: Sølid's design empowers individuals to make
   informed decisions about how their data is processed. This transparency and
   user-centric approach reinforce privacy rights in the digital era.

5. **Enhanced Data Security**: When Sølid and secure mobile devices join forces,
   data security is significantly enhanced. This combination ensures that
   sensitive information remains confidential and protected, even in an
   increasingly interconnected digital landscape.

The integration of Sølid and secure mobile devices exemplifies a commitment to
safeguarding privacy in the digital age. By giving users control over their data
and leveraging the robust security features of trusted mobile platforms, this
partnership sets a new standard for data privacy and security in an era where
personal information is more valuable than ever.

Sølid's support for isolate entrancy timing counters marks a significant
advancement in optimizing the resource consumption and billing efficiency of
applications hosted on public cloud offerings. This innovative feature addresses
the challenges posed by traditional instance-based billing models, where
instances are billed for the duration of their operation, including time spent
in startup and idle states.

In platforms like AWS Lambda, instance-based billing can lead to inefficiencies
and higher costs due to the time spent on instance initialization and the
continuous billing during periods of IO operations. Sølid addresses these issues
by offering a mechanism that accurately tracks the actual CPU time consumed by
an application. This means that you're billed only for the actual processing
time, and not for the overhead time incurred during instance startup or idle
states.

Sølid's approach enables hosting providers to eliminate the billing overhead
associated with idle isolates, resulting in more accurate billing and cost
savings for users. By offering a straightforward API accessible within the
calling isolate, or even through native code in Golang or C++, Sølid ensures
that implementing this feature is seamless and efficient for developers.

This feature aligns with Sølid's overarching goal of providing an efficient,
cost-effective, and user-centric runtime environment. By optimizing billing
processes and reducing unnecessary costs, Sølid empowers developers and hosting
providers to create a more streamlined and economical hosting experience. This
approach not only benefits developers' bottom lines but also contributes to a
more sustainable and efficient cloud computing ecosystem.
