---
title: Security
order: 2
---

# Security

The security measures implemented by Sølid demonstrate its commitment to
providing a robust and controlled environment for hosting applications and
services. The configurable access controls and security options contribute to
creating a secure and controlled environment across both public and private
cloud setups:

1. **Public Cloud Security**: In the context of public clouds, Sølid's
   capability to configure access on a per-process and per-isolate basis adds a
   layer of granularity to security management. This feature allows
   administrators to restrict access to local network and host-based resources,
   mitigating potential security vulnerabilities. This fine-grained control
   ensures that hosted applications have only the necessary access privileges,
   enhancing the overall security posture.

2. **Private Cloud Security**: For private cloud environments, Sølid follows a
   least-access security principle, aligning with best practices in security. By
   default, Sølid ensures that access to resources is limited to what is
   essential, reducing the potential attack surface. Furthermore, the ease of
   opening access through the built-in Sølid dashboard provides administrators
   with the flexibility to customize security settings based on their specific
   requirements.

These security measures cater to the varying needs of users and organizations,
striking a balance between accessibility and safeguarding against potential
security threats. By allowing administrators to tailor access controls to their
use cases, Sølid empowers users to create a secure and controlled hosting
environment that aligns with their security protocols and compliance standards.

It's important to note that while these security principles might seem
intuitive, their effective implementation requires careful engineering and a
deep understanding of both networking and security practices. The fact that
Sølid offers these security features as part of its offering underscores its
commitment to providing a comprehensive solution that caters to the modern needs
of secure application hosting.

Sølid's emphasis on extensibility and security awareness reflects its dedication
to providing a flexible yet secure foundation for hosting applications and
services. The ability to make informed choices, especially when it comes to data
security and privacy, is a pivotal aspect of Sølid's design philosophy. Here are
some key points to consider:

1. **Extensibility and Security**: The fact that Sølid is designed to be
   extensible means that it can adapt to a variety of use cases and accommodate
   the evolving needs of users and applications. This extensibility is crucial
   as it allows developers and administrators to tailor the system to their
   specific requirements while maintaining security.

2. **Decentralized Choice**: Sølid's decentralized design aligns with the
   principles of user autonomy and control. The ability to choose whether to
   allow data infiltration, especially in jurisdictions where such practices
   might be permissible, empowers users to make decisions aligned with their
   privacy preferences.

3. **Security and Privacy**: Sølid's commitment to security is apparent in its
   design. The sentiment that private data should remain private is a core tenet
   of data security and privacy practices. By prioritizing user consent and
   control, Sølid ensures that users have the final say in granting access to
   their private data.

4. **Transparency and Consent**: The concept of consent is integral to data
   privacy. Sølid's approach aligns with the principle that data sharing,
   especially when it is made public, should happen with the user's full
   awareness and agreement.

5. **User-Centric Design**: Sølid's stance reflects a user-centric design
   approach, emphasizing that individuals should have the right to determine who
   accesses their data, even when it's in a public domain.

Overall, Sølid's approach encapsulates the broader conversations surrounding
data privacy, control, and the role of technology in enabling user choices. Its
design philosophy aligns with the idea that the power to decide how data is
accessed and shared should rest with the individuals themselves. This kind of
approach resonates with those who advocate for user empowerment and protection
of privacy in the digital age.
